In general terms, "Mining" is a process of extraction of some of the  valuable material from the earth e.g. coal mining, diamond mining, etc. In  context of computer science, "Data Mining" can be referred to as knowledge mining from data, knowledge extraction, data/pattern analysis, data archaeology, and data dredging.  It is basically a process carried out for the extraction of useful information from  the bulk of data or data warehouses.  One can see that the term itself is a little confusing one . In the case of coal or diamond mining, the result of  extraction process is coal or diamond. But in the case of Data Mining, the result of the extraction process is not data!! Instead, in  data mining results are the patterns and knowledge that we gain from the end of the extraction process. In that sense, we can think of Data Mining as a step in the process of Knowledge Discovery or Knowledge Extraction from data.
Gregory Piatetsky-Shapiro coined  term "Knowledge Discovery in Databases" in 1989. However, the term 'data mining' became more and more popular in the business and press communities. Currently, Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery are used interchangeably.

Nowadays, data mining is used in almost all the places where a large amount of data is stored and processed. For example, banks typically used  'data mining' to find out the prospective customers who could be interested in credit cards, personal loans, or insurance as well. Since banks have their transaction details and detailed profiles of  customers, they analyze all the data and try to find out patterns that help them predict that certain customers could be interested in personal loans, etc.
Basically, Data mining has been integrated with many other techniques from the other domains such as statistics, machine learning, pattern recognition, database and data warehouse systems, information retrieval, visualization, etc. to gather more information about the data and to help and  predict hidden patterns, future trends,  behaviors and allows businesses to make decisions as well.
 Technically, data mining is the computational process of analyzing data from different perspectives, dimensions, angles and categorizing/summarizing it into meaningful information.


