In general terms, "Mining" is the process of extraction of some valuable material from the earth e.g. coal mining, diamond mining, etc. In the context of computer science, "Data Mining" can be referred to as knowledge mining from data, knowledge extraction, data/pattern analysis, data archaeology, and data dredging. It is basically a procedure carried out for the extraction of functional information from a bulk of data or data warehouses. One can see that the term itself is a little perplexing. In the case of coal or diamond mining, the result of the extraction procedure is coal or diamond. But in the case of Data Mining, the result of the extraction process is not data!! Instead, data mining results are the patterns and knowledge that we gain at the end of the extraction procedure. In that sense, we can think of Data Mining as a step in the process of Knowledge Discovery or Knowledge Extraction.
Gregory Piatetsky-Shapiro coined the term "Knowledge Discovery in Databases" in 1989. However, the term 'data mining' became more sought-after in the business and press communities. Currently, Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery are used interchangeably.



In these times, data mining is used in almost all places where a large amount of data is stored and processed. For example, banks typically use 'data mining' to find out their prospective customers who could be interested in credit cards, personal loans, or insurance as well. Since banks have the transaction details and detailed profiles of their customers, they scrutinize all this data and try to find out patterns that help them predict that certain customers could be interested in personal loans, etc.
Basically, Data mining has been integrated with many other techniques from other domains such as statistics, machine learning, pattern recognition, database and data warehouse systems, information retrieval, visualization, etc. to gather more information about the data and to help foresee hidden patterns, future trends, and behaviors and allows businesses to make settlements.
Technically, data mining is the computational process of scrutinizing data from different perspectives, dimensions, angles and categorizing/summarizing it into meaningful information.
