 "Mining" in general terms is the process of extraction of some worthy substance from the earth e.g. coal mining, diamond mining, etc. In the context of computer science, "Data Mining" can be referred to as knowledge mining from data, knowledge extraction, data/pattern analysis, data archaeology, and data dredging.  It is mainly the process carried out for the extraction of useful info from a bulk of data or data warehouses One can see that the term itself is a little baffling. In the case of coal or diamond mining, the result of the extraction process is coal or diamond. But in the case of Data Mining, the result of the extraction process is not data!! Instead, data mining results are the patterns and knowledge that we gain at the end of the extraction process. In that sense, we can think of Data Mining as a step in the process of Knowledge Discovery or Knowledge Extraction.
Gregory Piatetsky-Shapiro gave the term "Knowledge Discovery in Databases" in 1989. However, the term 'data mining' became more popular in the business and press societies. Currently, Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery are used interchangeably.

Nowadays, data mining is used in almost all places where a large amount of data is stored and processed. For example, banks typically use 'data mining' to find out their prospective customers who could be interested in credit cards, personal loans, or insurance as well. Since banks have the transaction details and detailed profiles of their customers, they analyze all this data and try to find out patterns that help them predict that some customers could be interested in personal loans, etc.

Basically, Data mining has been integrated with several other techniques from other domains such as statistics, machine learning, pattern recognition, database and data warehouse systems, information retrieval, visualization, etc. to get more information about the data and to helps predict hidden patterns, future trends, and behaviors and allows businesses to make decisions.
 Technically, data mining is the computational process of analyzing data from various perspectives, dimensions, angles and categorizing/summarizing it into meaningful information.


